---
title: Signing with Digital Signature
linktitle: Signing with Digital Signature
second_title: GroupDocs.Signature .NET API
description: Learn how to sign documents digitally in .NET using GroupDocs.Signature. Enhance security and authenticity with this comprehensive tutorial.
type: docs
weight: 12
url: /net/advanced-signature-techniques/sign-with-digital/
---
## Introduction
Digital signatures play a crucial role in ensuring the authenticity and integrity of electronic documents. In the realm of .NET development, GroupDocs.Signature offers a powerful solution for seamlessly integrating digital signatures into your applications. This tutorial will guide you through the process of signing a document using a digital signature with GroupDocs.Signature for .NET.
## Prerequisites
Before we dive into the implementation, make sure you have the following prerequisites in place:
1. GroupDocs.Signature for .NET: Download and install GroupDocs.Signature for .NET from the [download page](https://releases.groupdocs.com/signature/net/).
2. Digital Certificate: Obtain a digital certificate (.pfx) that will be used for signing the document. If you don't have one, you can create a self-signed certificate or obtain it from a trusted certificate authority.
3. Document to Sign: Prepare the document (e.g., PDF) that you want to sign digitally. Ensure that you have the necessary permissions to access and modify the document.
4. Signature Image: Optionally, you can provide an image of your signature that will be embedded into the document. This adds a personalized touch to the digital signature.

## Import Namespaces
First, let's import the necessary namespaces to our C# code:
```csharp
using System;
using System.IO;
using GroupDocs.Signature;
using GroupDocs.Signature.Domain;
using GroupDocs.Signature.Options;
```
## Step 1: Specify File Paths and Options
Define the file paths for the document to sign, the signature image (if applicable), and the digital certificate.
```csharp
string filePath = "sample.pdf";
string fileName = Path.GetFileName(filePath);
string imagePath = "signature_handwrite.jpg";
string certificatePath = "YourSignature.pfx";
string outputFilePath = Path.Combine("Your Document Directory", "SignWithDigital", fileName);
```
## Step 2: Initialize Signature Object
Create an instance of the `Signature` class by passing the path of the document to sign.
```csharp
using (Signature signature = new Signature(filePath))
{
    // Define digital signature options
    DigitalSignOptions options = new DigitalSignOptions(certificatePath)
    {
        ImageFilePath = imagePath, // Set image file path (optional)
        Left = 50,                 // Set X-coordinate of signature position
        Top = 50,                  // Set Y-coordinate of signature position
        PageNumber = 1,            // Specify the page number to sign
        Password = "1234567890"    // Set password for certificate (if required)
    };
    // Step 3: Sign the Document
    SignResult result = signature.Sign(outputFilePath, options);
    // Step 4: Display Result
    Console.WriteLine($"\nSource document signed successfully with {result.Succeeded.Count} signature(s).\nFile saved at {outputFilePath}.");
}
```

## Conclusion
In this tutorial, we've explored how to sign a document using a digital signature with GroupDocs.Signature for .NET. By following these simple steps, you can enhance the security and authenticity of your electronic documents, ensuring they remain tamper-proof and legally binding.
## FAQ's
### What is a digital signature?
A digital signature is a cryptographic technique used to verify the authenticity and integrity of digital documents or messages.
### Can I sign documents with GroupDocs.Signature using a self-signed certificate?
Yes, you can sign documents using a self-signed certificate generated by tools like OpenSSL or Microsoft's MakeCert.
### Is GroupDocs.Signature compatible with different document formats?
Yes, GroupDocs.Signature supports a wide range of document formats, including PDF, Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and more.
### Can I customize the appearance of my digital signature?
Absolutely! GroupDocs.Signature allows you to customize various aspects of your digital signature, such as its position, size, and appearance.
### Is GroupDocs.Signature suitable for enterprise-level applications?
Yes, GroupDocs.Signature offers robust features and scalability, making it an ideal choice for enterprise-level document signing applications.
